prince in this video,
we're going to discuss a voter data types off your python or variable later types inward.
Pipe on,
See before going toe.
Start about this concert.
You know,
already variable,
right?
Simply you are taking some extra closer to any number and you are saying that this is a
variable.
I can also take some other variable.
Like why?
Because of some 4.8,
right,
or let's say some 30 close to some three place some four j But in itself j out taking I I
mean,
we help the variables right on in,
first available.
I have Anyway,
in all these three variables,
your number only.
But strictly speaking,
X is in danger.
Why is there some floor that is a complex That means based on which type off that I was
touring into your variable?
Based on that,
we have data types are variable data types on One more thing,
guys.
You know,
whenever if you assign something like any variable equals toe,
any value,
right,
so you're pipeline is going toe.
Take some ram memory on in that you're storing your value called four on whatever the
address is there for this memory that is represented with the ex.
No,
if you want to take the value off ecstatically simply or techniques.
But if you want to find the what is the address off your ex?
So for that,
there is a small syntax.
Let me open that.
Let me show you that.
Let me enter into my piper.
You can use this from anywhere.
I mean,
from both By don script our program or panel off your piper idea effects will do the memory
location off your variable.
Okay,
lets this point is very,
very important for your online exams.
Just make a note idea Affects will do the your variable memory location.
But if you want to get variable value,
definitely are.
Take wearable itself.
Right?
See,
study X equals to fight.
I cannot take print.
Exe.
I can get value affects.
But if I want to get them any idea memory location off your ex.
I have to take in this way So otherwise.
Aiken store idea,
fix or address off X equals two idea fix.
I mean,
I am defending one new variable called idee X On into that,
I assign idea if it's,
I can do it in this way also.
Okay,
that's fine.
No,
let's come back to your discussion.
Data types like first thing is very value in Piketon has a greater type.
It may be in digital float or complex are some string or some 1,000,000,000 But we are
different data types in your pipe on I Monday's whatever the point we have here,
right,
that may or may not be understand by you as off?
No,
Because you if you're familiar with some oops concepts off any other programming language,
then you can easily understand the second point.
If you don't know,
just forget about second point.
We will discuss it while working with groups in your pipe bomb.
So that is,
since everything is an object in python.
So whatever you are creating,
what are your writing?
No,
that is like an object in your python programming.
So later types or actually,
classes on variables,
right?
Your relatives are actually court how classes on variables on they are like instances off
the classes.
That's fine.
So based on which type of data you are storing into your variable based on that we have
different types of data types,
right?
Then we hold various.
But I'm going with as off no basic data types.
They are like numbers in numbers.
See how in digital ETA float on complex strings.
1,000,000,000.
Okay,
let me weapon or script under,
I will write.
So I opened my sublime texts.
Let me given name for my by transcript.
Like,
just click on control.
It's just press control.
This So we are working with our Let me take a desk toe there.
We have one Fuller called Python scripts.
Let me clear.
Here,
working with date are types.
Not the way.
Right.
Fine.
So the first thing I am writing X equals to some number three.
Okay.
Why he caused to some number four or six and very close to some number.
Ah,
three place some four day four I like.
Then let me print first your variable x and then let me print your variable.
Why?
And let me bring You are available.
Is it right?
Saving time,
Danny.
So to run just to press control,
be so you're getting your old data us,
right?
So as if you actually here.
I defined my variables.
Three variables in three lines.
Of course I can also defined in this way in a single.
And if you want,
defend multiple variables,
you can also go in this way.
This is also valid one just after the output.
They're getting same onboard,
right?
Fine.
No.
And even if you want to display your all variables with one single prince statement simply
,
you can write X comer.
Why calmer?
There is also valid one.
Okay,
no,
let me run this and see the output.
You're getting same or put right.
But in this single any or getting so how to bring in multiple and we will see it,
right?
Okay,
fine.
So just for clarity just I'm maintaining exit closed toe on.
Why cause toe on very close to one Then I am printing separately.
Print.
Exe then print.
Why brings that fine at the same time?
Know what I'm doing is I'm also printing X comma Taipa fix so I can print with the paper
fix right and see the output off your X value X type semi.
Why comma pipe off.
Wait.
And they're already we know this.
What is the type right of the Lord?
Put your getting in digital photo and complex.
So anyway,
for stuff all these three variables are number their type specifically exes,
Indigent wise.
Float under these complex.
So this is one data types oppose.
Right now.
Let me come in.
This your second data type as strings string thing is nothing.
My group off characters,
maybe single character.
Also,
let's say I'm taking a variable name That is my name or language name,
right?
You can take any variable Simply convey Kelley calls to also just suitable variable name.
I'm selecting language name because toe fight on scripting.
So,
guys,
if you abs or whatever you're writing on right side of your equal symbol,
that is a string If it is a string,
you have to mention that spring inside off quotations same as your print through print your
printing some string Know if it is a stream you hard right inside of your conditions on
that quotations maybe single quotation or double quotation.
Let me force to work with single condition and see the output.
But I can also define like,
you know,
single quotations as well.
That's it,
right.
And let me do one thing.
I am taking my name because to not in the so print mining,
right,
so if he observed Gold Line,
You are defining a string.
If it is a string actually hard,
right inside of quotations,
it may be single or double or even maybe trouble courts also.
But I was off.
No,
I'm going to work with single and double for timing.
You just remember only these two way off our defining your strings will discuss with the
trouble court somewhere else.
Find naive.
You absorb my name,
it goes to string I'm writing.
But this thing I'm not writing inclination.
And if you run this see,
that would all you're getting.
You're getting another call.
Name Narendra is not define in case.
If it is already variable,
then this value will be assigned to this like let me explain with example Suppose X equals
two uo how and why cause to X.
If I write,
X is already defined externalities there too.
Now that value are assigned away and in this case,
this correct.
But in our program know where we are Defending variable called Narendra.
That's why it is giving name Maren.
Raise not define.
But actually our intention is not in the race,
not a variable like not in razor data that's why Hide right inside off your quotations Now
it will work perfectly not to Right on.
If you want to know the type off,
you are variable Always you can print pipe off your variable name so that you will get you
are variable type which type off that I used touring the your variable That is a string
right?
Then the next one is you.
How brilliant data types.
So that is in your strings.
You know,
Let me take simply my name it go to some X Also know yet I am read declaring my variable
name as X.
Now see that could final output Yes,
you are getting I mean,
you can also take single character as you are String.
No problem.
See,
that would put you're getting classle String X is also a string.
Okay,
this is fine.
Now let me come into multiple lines.
I'm commending.
So you know what is the purpose of common?
I mean double courts to comment multiple lines,
right?
No,
if I run this program,
nor put because all lines are commentator Fine,
No,
observe that.
I'm going to take something called my value.
It was to prove right So that's you know who is not art available here.
And suppose if you feel you either string,
you should write in quotations.
And in case if Bruce is not present,
then what will happen?
You will get on a If true is not a variable.
You will get another but except through one false let me take my new value equals two false
Let me run this on set up or you're not getting in our boat at the same time you're not
getting any real as well.
But if I take my one more value equals two small it it's true.
And if I run there to see that would what you're getting,
who is not defined?
Small letter t crew is not defined.
Same a cattle peers or more different,
right?
But you're not getting every year,
but you're getting era while defending in this way.
That means actually Onley coupled a true on only a couple of false these two or for your
bullion right.
Let me print the work.
My name.
Sorry,
my value on then.
Type off.
You are my value.
I see the output You're getting like a bullion not only for that spring my new value.
Come on,
type off my new value.
See,
that would put what are we in?
So actually,
but nobody feel right in the best way.
You will feel that truly the string on false is also a string.
But if you don't write quotations only for these two words guys,
Not for any other words only for cattle.
True on,
only for capital falls.
If we don't write quotations than they will,
actors like a bullion data tights by mistake.
If you write quotations for true,
if you write anything inside of a condition that is always a string,
even though if it is capital through because you return inside off conditions now that data
will be considered as a string of the output you're getting as a string.
Right?
So hard to remember at this point accepted these Prue under false remaining all strings.
He are too right.
Quotations.
Then Only that is a values.
It's index.
Even if you want to take Prue as a string.
Yes,
you can take it by mentioning inside of quotations.
Right.
So these these are the data types basically types in your pipe.
I so already we know that the next thing is typecasting or Pipkin wash in.
So simply converting one data type to another Is it possible?
Yes,
it is possible.
Let me show you one example See as off.
No,
let me take are very simple example so that it will be clear I'm taking X equals some
number 56 right?
And then I am printing your ex Then each of type off X.
I've got output first indigent No,
I'm taking way.
Why?
Because to string off ux Then I'm printing.
Why come a type off your weight so whatever the way you are No,
that way How you are creating from Yes,
I'm creating way.
But while assigning x valued away I'm converting the number into a string No seed output?
Yes.
Now you are 56 is a string that means waiver living a string but X values in teacher Right
Simba,
let me take X equals toe.
So what sums 30 cause toe bullion bullion off your ex and let me print He was hurt as well
as staples it see the output through your getting William affects some value.
Is there that value?
Ficken What?
Windows there.
I'm in bullion that will be it proved.
Let me take Peco's to some Jiro by on first,
let me print your P,
then type off B So I want to print the P as well as type off key.
So after the last of printed statement,
that is a in Asia know what I'm doing is that would take some Q equals two bullion off beak
.
Now let me print in the next line.
Que comma type off You are cute.
It is a false like Okay,
how you're getting true or false,
I will explain you.
But before that you are committing one data type to another data type string indigent to
string right or string to bullion.
Also you can convert.
Okay,
No,
let me do the helping words to convert wonder typo Other type So that is in your data types
in your number there may be how in digital float and then complex on the strings string
under them 1,000,000,000 billion.
So these are the helping words took on word from wondered I put another data type right?
Let's say now I can easily explain from Colonel gays.
Let me right next week was 24.6.
Now am printing?
Definitely.
Indeed.
It affects.
That is floor fraction.
What will be removed,
right?
No,
I have it.
Ah,
let's say my name.
It goes to some fight on.
No.
You know what is the type off your name?
Right?
I'm printing your name as well s type off your mean string,
right?
No,
I'm trying to convert that string into invasion.
So can I can work simply indigent off your variable.
It is giving any in valued usual for individual with the best 10 because see,
guys number four if you right inside of conditions that will convert as a string.
But if you remove quotations for pie tone because this is the whole for bits,
right?
All for birds you cannot convert into number but number You can convert into strings So
these are very,
very important point for sitting any data by can be gun work in two billion fasting.
There is always true with the help off.
Simply bullion off.
Any data type is maybe true or false.
So when it will become true or when it will become false so bullion off the empty is always
false.
Okay,
on bullion off non empty data is always true.
Let me do the examples.
What is empty and what is non empty?
Gentle?
Nothing right?
Judo is nothing.
So let me show you on your tunnel.
William off Jiro is always false.
Let's say I am defending a string which is empty.
See immediately.
I started enclosed with quotations.
That is a that is an empty string.
And I'm trying to convert that string into bullion.
False night Guys,
there is one more dirt I call none.
Nothing so bullion off non is also false.
And where you going?
Forward.
We will see something like this as off.
No,
don't worry.
Just absolutely.
This is also empty.
I'm I'm not writing anything inside off your curly braces.
Right?
So you are Brace.
Okay.
So what is that?
We will see.
No for empty.
I'm giving example.
William Naufragio bullion off?
None.
None is also another.
Their lights.
Nothing.
William off some list of this is empty list and William off.
Ah,
let me Right.
Empty couple and then bullion off.
Empty dick Study.
So what is the dictionary?
Topple list.
We will see.
So these are all results.
Guys will always you or put us a false remaining combinations if something is there and if
you can put that in the bullion,
it will do proof so that these are very,
very important in your real time.
While writing our skips will come to know how much importance is there with conversion off
any dyinto 1,000,000,000.
Okay,
No one more point,
you would remember any data type can be converted into a string,
but everyone is not always true.
The reason is number can be converted into string,
like on a string,
which consists off all the bits.
That's thing you cannot convert into number,
Let's say,
Actually,
Costa Derek Lam writing a string called 34 fight now 345 string.
So what is the use off writing your number as a string mean?
Sometimes you know you are going to take a worse chance in this way.
What's funny is always the string guys you have to take as a string.
If you're going to work with in your real time with any wash in,
please be careful.
I don't define your Russian always as a string uneven while walking while writing your pipe
landscape.
Right to get some washing off some partners offer you'll get as a string only that's right
.
But I do,
right?
They were washing as a string,
That's fine.
No,
see that?
What will happen if I define any number inside of quotations right now?
Do you have a number called to not wander through that final number systems?
No,
you have something like this,
but you don't know multiple dots in your number systems.
That's why you cannot convert whatever they x you're having us off now into you.
What support If I take Could one not flat for is not a base 10 number system.
It is something else.
That's why that you cannot convert Indian number.
But if I take X equals to some 45 these a number.
But you represented that as a string because you heard it on the inside of quotations.
But I can convert that into Indonesia badly by reading in digital fix because 45 is there
in your you know,
even,
you know,
number systems also.
That's why you can convert that in do in de jour like so these that kiss for this meaning I
mean,
any generate can be converted into string.
But reverse is not always true.
Sometimes it is true whenever If that string is a valid number system,
they are night.
Okay,
guys.
So there's the way how you can convert from Wondered AIPO other type on the his called
typecasting or type conversion.
Okay.
Okay,
guys,
Thank you for watching this with you.